1. At this point we are only looking in-depth at cities to understand the processes of urbanization
in general. 

a. Measures and definitions of urbanization in general differ across cities and across countries.
We need to make a distinction between urbanization and urbanism.

2. So we are looking for more standard/robust forms of data we can use. 

a. Finding data at the city level is particularly tough. Most often this would need contacting
directly the city, and even the library has difficulty accessing such. One thing to keep in mind is
who's responsible for collecting such data. In each country, some specific level will be
responsible for governing and reporting the court system. People get sentenced at different
jurisdictions, and this is something we must be conscious about at each step of the way. The agency
responsible for such data can be at any level, and it never hurts to attempt to contact them
directly and ask.

3. Matthew Desmond - We want the data that was behind the insights that are displayed on his
website.

4. There may be multiple places to each story (a person may live in one place but commit a crime in
another), and different jusridictions can become intertwined in a complex sense. It is important to
keep this in mind.

5. The only good index of data is the published literature. Mostly we should be looking at papers
written by people who have studied specifics of such phenomena beforehand, and then look at their
sources.

6. Eviction data in particular gets generated from an administrative record, as there are court
filings, etc. 

7. Los Angeles has a particular housing dept. and are tracking these directly. There may be
equivalent structures in other cities. 

8. World development indicators; sustainable development goals; although these are mostly at the
country level.

9. A lot of the statistics we have been looking at requires microdata, and it will often only be
the government that has the resources or leverage to attempt to formulate these metrics.

10. Some of these measures we may have to get from private sources (e.g. water & utility prices in
places where those are privatized).

11. Even water and utilities distribution networks will differ in levels, and in many places you
may even have a significant amount of the population providing their own (e.g. solar panels). But
then even in those cases, these should be codified to some extent in regulation. So there might be
something to look into that.

12. Prevalence of homelessness in a given city, and its relationship to eviction (were they
evicted, ot were they never able to afford rent in the first place? What were the steps that led to
them being evicted?)

13. Hunger? More and more people are overwhelming the food banks, and that is another choice people
make that is probably very relevant to the question.

14. Let them (particularly Kris) take a look at the infos we have compiled, to both give them an
idea of what we have been looking for, as well as let them give ideas on how we have been
neglecting or overemphasizing certain points. Prepare spreadsheets giving concrete ideas of the
kinds and forms of data we are looking for, or have found, and that will give them a more specific
way for them to help us. Comment which variables we have looked, which sources we have looked, what
problems we have seen with the data and sources, etc.

15. Stace Maples gis.stanford.edu. look at the geospatial data center, and they can help us with
some of that kind of data. Earthworks. Branner Earth Sciences library has people which can be
helpful as well. We should look for print maps as well - search in searchworks for "<CITY> map" and
we may find interesting documents. NHGIS have taken a lot of census data to provide geospatial
information, and they also have tables+shapefiles.
